------------------------< Ritual System Process >------------------------

Each ritual consists of 3 main parts:  The Orifice, The Alter,  and The Offerings. 
for more advanced &/or stable rituals, The Summoning Circle and Modifier Blocks are required. 

 
The Orifice 
    Entity that stores data, and origin where ritual commands are executed from 


The Alter 
    Unique block structure built at the center under the orifice. Serves as a key that tells the orifice which Ritual type is selected. 
    Ritual Type is stored and later referenced through a macro to provide the corresponding reward function 


The Offerings 
    Placed blocks, dropped items, and mobs within the range of the ritual when activated become offerings. this is how the orifice detects material components for an induvial ritual type. 
    When preforming a ritual, you need the required offerings for it to be successful. This is used mainly in crafting or upgrading cryptid items 
    Technically the Alter is a placed block offering although, these blocks are typically not consumed as they only serve to select a Ritual Type. 



The Summoning Circle 
    The "floor" which the ritual takes place on. A physical block design that if present tells the Orifice that the ritual is organized and less severe mishaps can occur 
    If present Orifice will check 8 points spaced 45 degrees each. These are the Modifier slots. 


Modifier Slots 
    Modifier Slots and the associated Modifier Blocks allow players a few customization options for a ritual. Essentially these are futureproofing for whenever we want to add new mechanics to rituals. 

Modifier Blocks and their effects:

- Lodestone, focus block that takes another material block (Occult focus) place on top of the lodestone. The Occult Foci increase or decrease the probability of success, but, are consumable. Up to 5 lodestones can be used at max. 

- Enchanting table, adds the translate tag to the orifice. This provides additional information throughout the duration of a ritual intended to help players learn how to use the system and, fix misplaced blocks. 

 

 

File organisation structure 

When calculating a ritual, its done in phases, each phase and its respective functions are ordered first to last in the order they are called in the tickorifice function. 


In function/rituals folder as such in order

    athame             (The Ritual Knife, used to summon the orifice and Initiate a Ritual)

    Initial             (Inital checks that store data about the selected ritual and its modifiers)

    Random              (Calculation and final check phase)

    Result              (Handles the various Outputs, succeses and failures along with individual ritual rewards)

 

Notes
- alter and circle check are defined in predicates
- orifice code is located outside /rituals, it is under cryptid/function/tick/tickorifice.mcfunction




Ritual
 both circle and unbound rituals should have roughly equal amounts of code for them. expand unbound rituals to be equal in content and complexity as circled.
    Circle rituals


    unbound rituals



Hersical rep system intigration for future mod version

Progression of sacrifices

    Againts corruption
        A ritual Circle and mask is used to Bind the Orifice to do the players bidding and make whatever tools they need  

    Serving coruption
        more difficult mobs and in greater numbers are required for each ritual, rewards ccryptid curse powers or items


Compromise for current datapack version

    Againts corruption
       within a preivous players base, the athame is found, books written by them describe a binding ritual that they preformed but ultimatles \
       is responsible for their deaths in the process. 
       using the athame summons the orifice bound by the calcified mask.
       all crafting and other benifical rituals require the circle

    Serving coruption
        Without a circle, no items can be crafted, sacrifices will only decrease some wold fury, and act as a way for players to spread the corruption and spawn cryptids.
        the cryptids will still try to kill you the flesh cares not if you devote yourself to it, it hungers for all just the same.
        really small chance of being gifted a rare cryptid item after many sacrices. (arm?)










  TOOOO DOOOOOOOOO for full realse
Finish athame
    - model

Fix cryptid items
 - unified descriptions
 

Corrupted mobs


rituals 
    - Craving refresh
    - Circle story Structures

Declutter system?
- remove any multiple day old markers and despawns trapped hostile cryptids

Elder tree ?
- long term corruption spawner removble by axe.
- soma maybe more cryptid spawns or no despawns within the soma biome
- slight event percetage increas on feshy blocks?


Check Head peeper

Mapp marker


Structures
- more story Structures
- structure place configuration
- story struture biome tags

Dream
- finish it visuals
- incorperate into events more

